Story Recapped here. Today,
I'm going to explain a fantasy,
thriller, mystery film called "Let Me In."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
In 1983 at Los Alamos, New Mexico, police cars
escort an ambulance to a Memorial Hospital with
sirens blaring. They're carrying an unidentified
50-year-old man with acid burns on his face.
The attendants place him on a respirator
since the acid's toxic fumes seared his
lungs and compromised his breathing.
A Detective then approaches him at the
hospital. Since the man cannot speak, he hands
him a pen and a notepad to write his answers.
The detective then asks him to identify himself,
wondering if the old man is a Satanic cult member.
He receives no response. A nurse directs the
detective to the front desk to take a call from
the lobby receptionist, who informs him that the
man's daughter has inquired about her father.
The man’s respirator starts beeping
and a nurse returns to the man's room.
A loud scream reverberates through the hospital
when the nurse witnesses the man jump from the
tenth-floor window to his death. The detective
immediately rushes to the room to see what is
going on. He looks through the window and
sees the man’s body. Feeling hopeless,
the detective heads back to grab his notepad and
sees a note written that says, "I'm sorry, Abby."
Two weeks earlier, twelve-year-old Owen is
sitting alone while singing to himself in
their apartment's snow-covered courtyard until
his mother called him for dinner. He then puts
his hands inside his pockets, gets tons of candy
wrappers, and throws them, burying them into the
snow. While having dinner with his mother, the
phone suddenly rings. It turns out Owen's parents
are going through a divorce, so he frequently
entertains himself by playing alone in his room.
Owen points a knife in front of the mirror while
wearing a mask as if he's threatening someone.
He then grabs his telescope to peek
through their neighbors, and then suddenly,
he notices a girl his age and her father
moving into the apartment next door.
She's not wearing any shoes, which is unusual.
The following day at school, a bully named Kenny
throws a snowball at Owen while they're having a
ceremony inside the classroom. Owen simply wipes
it off while Kenny gives him a stern look.
Meanwhile, during a swimming class, Kenny keeps
on tripping Owen and his other classmates as well.
He naughtily unties a swimsuit of his
classmates, causing their teacher to punish him.
Kenny seems upset and sees Owen smirking at
him. Owen immediately rushes into his locker,
but Kenny and his friends interrupt him,
teasing him that he's a little girl. As Owen tries
to escape, the bully puts him down on the floor,
punching and kicking him, and even gives Owen
a wedgie, causing him to urinate on himself.
Owen doesn't fight back out of fear, and the
bullies leave him miserable on the floor.
On his way home, he stops by
a convenience store to grab
some of his favorite "Now and Later"
candies. While paying for his sweets,
he notices a swiss knife at the counter,
wondering if he would buy it as well.
That evening, he notices that the new girl,
Abby, is watching him as he rehearses knife
attacks on a tree in the courtyard. She's not
friendly and tells him right away that they're
not going to be friends. Abby leaves while Owen
is alone again, practicing his knife skills.
Owen later sees Abby's father walk
through the yard, carrying a duffel.
Later that evening, Abby's father meticulously
stalks a high school kid at a local supermarket
and breaks into the kid's car. Unbeknownst to
the presence of a man in his back seat, the kid
casually drives his vehicle until he stops by a
railroad as he waits for the train to pass by.
Abby's father knocks him out as the train
passes. He then drags him into the woods,
ties him up by his ankles, and slices his
throat open, draining his blood into a jug.
When he's about to leave, Abby's father then trips
in the snow and spills the blood on the ground.
He immediately packs his
things as a truck approaches.
When Abby's father returns home, Abby seems upset.
Through the walls, Owen hears the father saying
that he's getting old, weak, and slow, and maybe
even wanted to get caught. Abby then walks out.
The following day, Owen's school announces
the death of one of their students,
advising everyone to keep safe. That night, Abby
and Owen cross paths again in the courtyard.
He notices Abby isn't wearing shoes again, and she
stinks. Despite this, Owen shares his Rubik's cube
with her and demonstrates how to use it. Owen
feels weird around her, so he returns home,
leaving Abby alone with the Rubik's cube. As her
stomach growls, she drops the cube and leaves.
Later that night, Abby hides, sitting in the
shadows beneath a bridge. A young man hears
Abby's pleading on his way to get his motorcycle
parked under the bridge. Abby pretends to be sick
and asks a passing man to assist her. The man
then picks her up and promises to take her home
when suddenly she grabs him and bites his neck.
The man tries to resist her attacks, but she
is too strong. Once satisfied with drinking his
blood, she breaks the man's neck and runs away.
When Abby returns home, she tells her father what
she's done, making him furious. Owen
overhears their argument once again.
Still, the father cleans up Abby's mess by
dumping the man's body into a small lake.
One night, Abby is waiting for Owen in
the yard. She's friendlier this time,
and she takes the time to explain how she solved
the puzzle to Owen. Abby also smells better,
but it's strange that when Owen asks for her
birth date, the girl can't recall it. Abby doesn't
celebrate her birthdays or receive gifts because
she doesn't know her birthday, so Owen offers her
the Rubik's cube as a present. They seem to be
closer as they smile candidly at each other.
The next day, while the rest of the class blushes
while watching Romeo and Juliet, Owen is pretty
busy studying Morse code symbols. Kenny and his
friends confront him in the restroom later and
inquire about what he was working on in class.
When Owen refuses to show him, Kenny hits him with
a metal wire, causing a gash on his left cheek.
At dinner, Owen later informs his distant and
inattentive mother that he fell during recess. His
mother tells him to be more careful next time.
After dinner, Owen meets Abby in the yard, as
is customary. Owen tells her the truth about
what happened when she notices the band-aid on
his cheek. She warns him that if he hits them
hard enough, they will stop. Abby even promises to
assist him if they continue hurting him. However,
Owen tells her about the Morse code he learned
so that they can communicate through walls.
Abby wonders if Owen hears them, to
which he responds only sometimes,
prompting him to ask more questions about
her. When she returns to their unit,
she commands her father to
move away from the wall,
so she and Owen can practice tapping Morse code
on the wall that divides their apartments.
The following day, Owen enrolls in
the weight-lifting program at school,
hoping he can beat his bullies.
Later that day, Owen sneaks through her mom's
room to steal twenty dollars while gazing at a
sacred photo. He later takes Abby to an arcade. He
hands her his favorite candy bars. She initially
refuses but then tries one. Upon eating the
candy, she heads out as she tries to vomit it.
Owen follows her, and Abby apologizes. Feeling
bad, Owen then hugs her to comfort her. While
hugging, Abby inquires if he would still like her
if she weren't a girl, to which Owen responds, "I
guess so," not entirely realizing what Abby means.
They walk home, and while nearing the apartment,
Abby holds his hand, but suddenly Owen's mother
calls his name, asking him to go home. Feeling
disappointed, he talks her out for a second,
but she's gone when he comes back for Abby.
However, they meet in the corridor, smiling
at each other while saying good night.
While preparing his duffel bag, father
greets Abby as she walks in the door.
Abby slowly approaches him and caresses his
face. The father holds her hand and tells her
not to meet Owen again as he becomes envious
as Owen and Abby's friendship grows stronger.
During the night, Abby's father makes
another attempt to get blood for Abby.
He finds another target and hides in the
back seat of their car once again. However,
the target's friend named Greg ruins Abby's
father's plans as Greg suddenly asks for a ride.
The target pulls over for gas, leaving Greg alone
inside the car. When the kid gets reaches for his
bag in the backseat, Abby's father assaults him.
The struggling kid causes them to crash into a
barrier and flip over, trapping Father beneath the
vehicle and killing Greg instantly. Abby's father
knows that the police find him soon, so he pours
acid on his face so he couldn’t be identified.
While Abby is on her bed, comforted by the fact
that Owen is on the other side of the wall, she
suddenly learns through a radio report that her
father is in the hospital and under investigation.
She goes to the hospital and heads to
its front desk to ask for her father.
However, the front desk officer tells her to
wait as she calls for assistance. Abby refuses
and heads out of the hospital. The front desk
officer follows her out, but she's suddenly gone.
It turns out she’s climbed up the building until
she reaches her father's window. The burnt-face
father welcomes her in and extends his neck to
her. After she drains his blood, Father falls
to his death, while Abby hides from the dark. The
detective, taking a call from the receptionist in
the lobby, hears the nurse scream and arrives in
the father's room. As soon as the detective leaves
the window after peeking through what happened,
Abby jumps off the building, escaping the scene.
Abby then returns to the apartment building a
little while later and knocks on Owen's window,
requesting entry. Owen is almost asleep when she
enters the room. Still, he tells her to come in.
Abby crawls into bed with him after
removing her bloody clothes. When Owen
asks if she wants to be his girlfriend,
Abby responds that she's not a girl,
but that doesn't seem to bother Owen,
so they decide to be in a relationship.
Abby returns to her unit the following day, but
she leaves Owen a note saying she has to go away.
One afternoon, during a school outing to a
local pond for ice skating, Kenny and his
friends confront Owen again, threatening
to push him into an ice hole. This time,
Owen stands up for himself and summons the courage
to strike Kenny with a big stick in the head,
causing Kenny's ear to bleed. At the same time,
other students notice a body frozen in the ice.
The cops arrive and take
the body out of the lake.
Later that night, the detective
knocks on their unit at home,
asking a few questions about the killing
incident that happened in their neighborhood.
The detective knocks on Abby’s
apartment, but she refuses to open it.
The next day, Owen happens to see Jimmy, Kenny's
older brother, tripping him about his ears. Owen
is delighted to see Kenny experiencing what he
had gone through. When he goes home, he tells
Abby about fighting back against his bullies,
doing what Abby advised her. They seem happy
and satisfied. Feeling proud of him, Abby kisses
his cheek. Owen then takes Abby to a secret room
in the basement of the apartment building that
night. When Abby asks why they're in the basement,
Owen asks her to close her eyes. He then pulls
out a knife and cuts his palm, offering a pact
by mixing blood with her. As she watches Owen's
blood drip on the floor, Abby can't stand the
hunger she's feeling. She collapses to the ground
and begins licking Owen's blood off of the floor.
Abby finally transforms into her actual
vampire figure with white cataract eyes,
unappealing facial warts, and sharp teeth. Abby
hisses at Owen to leave, and when he doesn't,
she runs away. She climbs up a tree while overcome
with blood lust, waiting for the next victim.
Meanwhile, Virginia is arguing with her boyfriend,
Larry, when suddenly Abby pounces. Fortunately,
Larry manages to stop Abby from killing Virginia,
and he immediately rushes her to the hospital.
Later that day, the detective comes to question
Larry at the hospital. Unfortunately, the nurse
transfuses Virginia with six pints of blood. While
the detective talks with Larry, Virginia wakes up,
gazing at her blood from the injection. When the
nurse opens the curtains, Virginia is drinking
her own blood from her arm and then bursts into
flames, burning Virginia and the nurse alive.
Meanwhile, Owen seems confused and
surprised by what he recently learned.
He looks for someone to talk to, so Owen heads to
see her mother, but it turns out she's sleeping.
Meanwhile, Owen desperately calls his dad,
who doesn't take him seriously after Owen
asks about evils. Owen starts to cry when his dad
shrugs off his ideas, wondering what he would do.
His father hangs up the phone, and Owens
sobs harder with the phone in his hands.
Still, Owen tries to confront Abby. He knocks on
her unit and asks for permission to let him in.
When he asks if she is a vampire, she appears
to be oblivious to the term and says she needs
blood to survive He inquires as to her actual
age. She admits to being twelve again but says
she's been twelve years old for a long time.
He then asks about her father's whereabouts,
to which she responds that he was not her
biological father. Owen came across an old
photograph of Abby and Father when the old man
was around twelve years old, while Abby appears
to be the same as she is now. Owen returns
home, fearful of what she might do to him.
The next day, Abby knocks on the door. She
asks if he could let her in, but Owen refuses.
He inquires as to what would happen if he
didn't let her in. She responds with nothing
and enters quietly and uninvitedly. However,
her skin begins to bleed almost immediately,
telling him that that happens
when vampires are not invited.
Feeling worried, Owen greets her with a hug
and finally gives her permission to enter.
Later on, Abby takes a shower while Owen
fixes her clothes covered with blood.
He dumps them into the garbage after washing
off the bloodstains. Owen cheerfully dances
while waiting for Abby in the shower, and
he even offers his mother's old dresses
for her to wear. When Owen's mother arrives
unexpectedly, Abby dashes across the window
from Owen's apartment to hers, even
though they are two stories apart.
The following day, Owen finds a note from Abby
asking him whether he would like to hang out
with her that evening. He is lying on the
floor inside Abby's apartment. Meanwhile,
based on Larry's description of Virginia's
attacker, the detective manages to trace
it to Abby, leading to her apartment. He breaks
in and carefully examines the place. Owen hides
immediately as the detective continues his search
for Abby. Finally, the man finds her asleep in the
bathtub. Because he can't see in the dark, he rips
open the foil covering the windows. Immediately,
Abby's skin begins to crack when exposed to the
sunlight. Owen screams, giving Abby sufficient
time to jump on the detective and drink his
blood. As the man lies dying on the floor,
he reaches out to Owen for help, but Owen closes
the bathroom door and leaves the man to his fate.
After feeding, Abby heads out of the bathroom
and hugs Owen from behind. Abby informs him
that she must go away before the rest of the
police show up looking for the detective.
With blood on her mouth, she kisses Owen
on his lips. Feeling down, Owen leaves her
unit and enters the next door. That night, Owen
looks out the window to see Abby getting into a
taxi to move away. The detective lies beneath
the basement where Owen took Abby for a pact.
Meanwhile, after Abby is gone, Owen returns
to his regular boring routine of going to
school and going home. One evening, he starts his
swimming lessons with Mr. Zoric. As he gets into
his swimsuit and begins his swimming lesson, Kenny
and his friends gather Owen's things and start a
fire in the dumpster behind the gym, forcing Mr.
Zoric to leave the pool area unattended. When Mr.
Zoric goes to put out the fire, they lock him
out of the gym and go back into the pool, where
Kenny's older brother Jimmy kicks everyone out of
the pool and makes Owen get back in. Jimmy asks
Owen to either stay underwater for three minutes
or have one of his eyes poked out using his knife.
Then Jimmy slams Owen into the pool. A minute
goes by, and the chaos begins in the gym.
Owen hears his bullies screaming, then Jimmy's
severed head falls into the water, following
more body parts. Nearly drowned, Owen emerges from
the water and crawls out. When he raises his eyes,
he sees Abby's bloody feet standing in front
of him. Apparently, she crashed into the pool
area through a skylight window and dismembered all
four bullies in a matter of seconds to save Owen.
Upon seeing Abby, Owen smirks. They leave the
bloody pool with body parts all over the gym.
Later, Owen is sitting on a train bound for
an unknown destination while snowing outside.
In front of him is a large trunk,
and Abby is tapping from the inside.
Owen responds with a Morse Code tap,
telling her that the train started to move,
and he then chews his favorite candy while
humming, eat some now, save some for later.
From the beginning, the story implies
Owen's fate as he is singing the tagline
of his favorite "Now And Later" candy.
He's singing the lines "eat some now,
save some for later," which will
later become his responsibility.
To provide blood for Abby, for her to feed
and save some, for him to have some supplies.
The story focuses tightly on Owen and Abby. Both
characters are sexually threatened or insecure
in some way. Bullies refer to Owen as a "girl,"
and they seem obsessed with seeing his genitals
to confirm his sexuality. Abby, on the other hand,
feels insecure because she is limited to do usual
things. They immediately feel a bond with one
another. However, as Owen and Abby come closer,
they are both afraid of intimacy and
contact due to their personal reasons,
and their only sensual moments
are tender hugs and kisses.
Towards the ending, it's clear that Owen has
taken the role of Abby's protector and handler,
and the two of them are on their
way to start a new life together.
Abby will also look after him and save him from
growing up and functioning as a normal male.
She'll be in charge of everything, which will
later become Owen's desire to surrender control.
In the end, the price of not being a victim is to
be a servant, who Abby's former lover selflessly
demonstrated. In the last part of the story, Owen
is still humming the tagline, "Eat some now, save
some for later," while eating his favorite candy,
implying the consequences of the choice he made.